>> James Halliday: Okay, so
now we can start to combine some of these
ways of hopping around with operators.
So if we want to delete a character,
you can just type x from command mode.
So if I do x, x, x, x, x, x,
x, x, but say,
what if I wanna delete the whole line?
Well, I can use the d operator for
that, so
there's a couple of ways
of using the d operator.
So I can do d$,
which deletes from the current
position to the end of line.
So maybe if I'm not at
the beginning of the line,
so If I'm right here, I can do d$.
Deletes everything to the end of the line.
If I do d0 or D caret,
it deletes everything from the current
position to the beginning of the line,
like so.
Also there's if you need to undo
something you can hit u in command mode.
If you wanna redo something,
you can do Ctrl + R, [INAUDIBLE].
>> James Halliday: Okay, so
more fun things that we can delete.
We can sort of combine the ways of
skipping around even more, so for example,
if we do dj,
j is a way of going down one line.
So what vim will do is it
will delete from wherever you
are to the next line and
also delete that line.
So this is a way of kind of
deleting those two lines.
Or you could also do dk, which deletes
the current line and the next line.
Or you can do dgg,
which deletes from the current
position to the beginning of the file.
Or you can do dG, which deletes from the
current position to the end of the file.
So everything you just
learned about moving around,
you can also use to delete
to different spots.
>> James Halliday: There's also some ones.
I don't use these but maybe I should where
you can do things like combine numbers.
So if you do 5dd, it's gonna delete
the next five lines, I think, yeah.
Or if you wanna go back the other way,
I think maybe d negative five,
would that work?
No.
Anyways, lots of fun ways
of combining these pieces.
>> James Halliday: But yeah, you can
also dl, which deletes to the left and
dh, which deletes to the right.
If you don't wanna use x for some reason.
>> James Halliday: So you can also use
regular expressions to hop around in them.
So you could search for a pattern.
For example, if we wanna, so
if I do /cool, I'm gonna skip ahead to
the next occurrence of the word cool.
If there are multiple occurrences
like here, I'll create a few more.
>> James Halliday: So if I search for
cool with /cool from command mode,
you can hit the N key,
which goes to the next match.
This is also true in less,
which is the pager that you're in if you
type get log or some other commands.
You can use capital N to go back to
the previous match, like that, so
n, capital N.
If you wanna search backward,
instead of a forward slash,
you can use a question mark.
So from command mode,
you can type a question mark and
then do something like a pattern.
Maybe question mark
change will match change.
The pattern system is
uses regular expressions.
So if you wanna search for maybe I'll
put some numbers in this text file.
So if you wanna search for
some numbers, we can do that.
So I'll put forward slash and then do
a character class match for 0 through 9.
And there I can skip
through those results.
>> James Halliday: And the same goes for
searching backward with question mark.
So here is another fun thing that
we can do, combining the matching
searching capabilities with regular
expressions with the delete operator.
We could do things, I can delete from
the current character by typing d and
then I can do /[0-9],
with square brackets.
And what this is gonna do is it's gonna,
starting at the current position,
it's gonna delete everything
until it gets to a number.
So if I do that,
I just deleted everything up to this
number not including the number.
I'll show you again, so you do d/ and
then the pattern that you want
to delete
>> Speaker 2: And
it deletes everything
until it hits the pattern?
>> James Halliday: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: From where your cursor is.
>> James Halliday: Yeah, and
not including the pattern.
There's also, you can now do dn as well,
which deletes to the next
occurrence of the pattern.
So if you already had a pattern that
you'd just done, you could do dn,
which deletes to the next occurence.
Or dN, which searches from the current
position to the previous occurrence.
>> Speaker 2: After you do that,
you delete something,
is there a way to get out of that mode?
Cuz I still see my pattern down there
after I deleted to that pattern.
>> James Halliday: Do you,
let me see here.
>> James Halliday: You still see
the pattern after you hit Enter or.
>> Speaker 2: Let me try again.
>> James Halliday: Okay.
>> Speaker 2: Keep going.
>> James Halliday: Okay [LAUGH].
>> James Halliday: So
there's some more ways to jump around,
other than regular expressions,
you can also use these operators f and
t and also capital F and capital T.
So for example, if I wanna skip,
suppose because I have
a sentence like this.
If I wanna jump from my current
position to that first period,
I could go l, l, l, l, l, l,
l, that's a lot of typing.
What I can do instead is type f.
>> James Halliday: Which is a little
bit easier sometimes than popping
into Regex mode, especially with the dot,
because dot is a meta character,
so all I have to do /\..
So f dot to go to pattern, I'll set t dot
to go to the character before that
character that you're searching for.
So do f dot, it goes straight to that
character, if I do t dot, right before it.
That works for any character,
so if I wanna hop to the t,
I can do t, capital T, right there.
You can combine the t and f way of hopping
around with deletes of course, as well.
So if I wanna delete everything
before the capital T,
I could do dt capital T, and
it deletes everything that
precedes the capital T.
So dT, capital T there, deletes everything
before the T, not including the T.
I could also do df capital T and
that deletes the capital T,
as well as everything preceding it.
There's also if you capitalize d and t,
you do a search backwards
instead of forwards, so
if I do a capital FI then it search
backwards on the current line.
I should mention again t and
f only search the current line only
Regex is which search the entire file.